Just to explain why I like to do
a little bit of upfront testing.
First of all,
I like to do it to check assumptions.
A lot of people come to you, we've
decided we want to redesign this app.
Why?
Cuz we think the app is rubbish.
Okay, why do you think it's rubbish?
Well, because we've looked at it and
it's rubbish.
All right, well,
let's just check that assumption,
that users think it's rubbish, right?
So that often why I tend to
do a little bit of up front
just to kinda validate the project.
I also like to do at this point
because there's low cost to it, right?
You don't need to build anything,
you're just testing what's already there.
[LAUGH] So it makes the testing less
expensive and time-consuming to do,
which is always a great thing.
And then also, it can be quite a good
opportunity to do a bit of a SWOT
analysis, a chance to identify strengths,
weaknesses,
opportunities and
threats with what's there already.
So it's quite a good
opportunity to do some testing,
if you can crowbar it in and
get permission to do it.
If you do testing at this stage,
typically, I'm looking for
the following things.
Do they get it?
Do people get what this thing is,
this app is, this website is, whatever?
Can they use it?
Fairly basic,
can they find their way around it?
Can they find a particular
piece of information they want?
Does it answer the questions
that they have?
What frustrates them about it?
What do they like about it?
That's all I'm trying to
find out at the beginning.
And if I do do that upfront testing,
oftentimes I'll do it
through usability testing.
So this is typically where
I will test probably
three to six people, if I can swing it.
Three is a minimum,
if you're gonna do less than
three it's probably not worth it.
But if you can't do six, then fine, but
as we said, you get 75% of the problems
at three people and you get something
like 95% of the problems at six.
So if you can do six, great.
There's two ways you can do it.
You can do facilitated testing, and that's
my preference at this stage, if you can,
where basically you're guiding
users through the process.
Asking them questions along the way,
what do you think of it, and
getting them to complete a series of
tasks while they're doing that and
speak out loud about that experience.
And facilitated testing is
great to get to know users and
understand the issues they have.
Often kind of combine a kind
of user interview with
the usability testing at the same time,
and do it as one session.
And it's a great way of kinda
getting a feel for the project.
If you can't do that because you haven't
got the time, right, because obviously,
you've got to sit there and talk to these
people for 40 minutes a pop, probably.
And then,
you might not have time to do that.
So the other option is facilitated
testing, where users complete tasks
independently while being encouraged to
think out loud about what they're doing.
And I'm gonna come on a lot more
about how to do these tests later.
The unfacilitated testing allows
you to test for more people,
because you don't have to sit through
every session, which can be nice, but
the insights aren't quite so deep.
So upfront I don't tend to favor it so
much, un-facilitated testing
tends to work better later when you've
got prototypes and things like that.
But you do what you can.
I won't say it again, but
you know what I would say.
Alongside usability testing, I'll also
do a quick bit of monitoring, looking
at the existing data that exists around
the site, if I can find time for that.
So typically, I'll jump into analytics.
And as I said before, I look at why users
are abandoning the digital services,
the big thing I wanna know, then I'll jump
across into Hotjar and Microsoft Clarity,
that I mentioned earlier.
Which have got heat maps that can
show me where people are clicking,
how far they've scrolled,
all that good stuff.
That can often be really enlightening,
cuz you can go, well,
people are already scrolling a third of
the page, no wonder they're struggling
to find things or, why are people clicking
on this thing that's not clickable?
That kind of stuff comes
out with heat maps.
And then if I'm feeling ambitious and
I've got a little bit more time,
I watch some sessions back, right?
So you can actually watch
real users interacting,
as we were talking about earlier.
And I will look particularly at
users that have struggled for
some reason, rage clicks.
Those that have abandoned the site early,
those that have clicked on
things that are unclickable,
those that have caused an error or
whatever else, and you sit watch
some of them, see what they did.
There's gonna be a lot more
on this kind of live testing,
where you're testing something
that already exists later, but
that's pretty much where I wanted to,
leave it for now.
So that's what I tend to do upfront
on projects, a little bit testing,
little bit getting to know users.
Yeah, go for it
>> Yeah, well, I like these, there's
a couple of things that I've really picked
up on, some tips, journeys, in particular.
But I do wanna mention that [COUGH]
anytime I go into a project,
I figure out the stakeholders,
as a mobile developer.
>> Yeah.
>> I figure out what device they're using.
>> Are they Android, are they iOS?
What version are they using?
And kinda like, what colors do they like?
But I use that so that I know if I can get
them attracted to a certain feature or
what flows they're having problems
with with the current application,
I can attract them to come
back into the meetings.
Cuz I'll say, X is having these problems.
Look at the flow, here's what's happening,
and we're trying to solve this.
>> Yeah.
>> Knowing the stakeholders' devices has
helped me a lot to get them encouraged.
>> I'm with you now,
you're actually saying,
yeah, what the stakeholder is seeing.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah, yeah, I get it.
>> Yeah, yeah, yeah.
>> Good.
>> Yeah, I mean-
>> Knowing your audience.
>> Yeah.
>> Also knowing your stakeholder's-
>> Yeah, yeah.
>> Device.
And if they're not using a device,
for example, in a website,
some people have preferences over
Safari versus Chrome or whatever.
So trying to figure that out first,
because sooner or later down the road,
they're gonna test it.
>> Yeah.
>> And they're gonna say, this is
a problem, and obviously, we miss it,
because we're so busy with the other
stats, but that part helps a lot.
>> Yeah,
I totally see where you're coming from.
I mean,
obviously it could be a dangerous road,
cuz you don't wanna just design it for
your stakeholders, but
you're not suggesting that,
you're just suggesting it's worth knowing.
Yeah, I totally agree.
Knowing your stakeholders,
knowing what makes them tick.
The other thing I often, what is there,
every person within a company
typically has a thing, a pet project,
a pet thing that they care about.
They might care about revenue or they
might care about efficiency or whatever.
And I just frame everything I ever
say to them within that context.
If we do usability testing,
it will make us much more efficient.
You're pandering to your audience, yeah,
we've got questions either online or-
>> Yeah, no, it's just-
>> It's you again, is it?
>> Yeah, it is.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Just overall, I'd say that with,
in Frontendmasters in general
maybe this is unique to us.
But I think whoever talks to
the customer at the most,
whether it's customer service,
whether it's usability testing,
whether it's, any interaction with
the customer, customer interviews, etc.
I feel like it has generally,
the biggest influence when it comes to
meetings about what we're
gonna work on next.
Or when there is a disagreement of
what we should build or whatever,
it's like, if somebody frames it from,
well, the customer said this,
they always win, [LAUGH] no matter
who in the company says it.
It's like, yeah,
if that's what the customer is saying,
that's what we need to do.
Rather than, I feel this or
I think this or whatever.
>> Yeah, and you'd think that would be
blindingly obvious, but it's not the norm.
It really isn't.
Most organizations, it's often the person
furthest from the customer that
is making most of the decisions.
The person that is the most
senior in the room.
And the senior person is almost
always the person that has
least contact with the customer.
It's crazy, but it is the way it
is in most organizations, not so
much with smaller.
The smaller the organization, often,
the closer the founder is to the customer.
But the bigger the organization,
the less it's driven by
user-centric thinking.
And you have to kind of really
enforce that in the culture.
So take, for example, the UK government.
The UK government,
when they set up their digital service,
they created a policy that said,
you cannot be a stakeholder
on a project unless you have done,
now, let me get this right.
Two hours of usability testing,
you've been sat in the room
with the user for
two hours in the last six weeks.
So basically, you were ruled
out from having anything, but
they had to really fight for that,
to enforce that kind of culture, and
it's just not that common
within organizations.
I wish everybody was like you guys,
cuz that's the way it should be.
So really, with this whole upfront
user research, if you're gonna do it,
keep it really lean, hike the cost
if you can, sneak it in if you can,
but don't overdo it,
don't do it for the sake of it.
But do take the time to identify your
audiences, have a good understanding
of who they are, and very much
trying to understand their needs.
And yeah, if you've got a little bit
more time and a little bit more budget,
then consider doing some mapping of the
customer journey and some testing as well,
if you can squeeze it in.